### MANAGEMENT OF REQUIREMENT

###### NEEDS INITIATIVE ASSESSMENT

Requirements are initiated at the portfolio, program, and/or project level and are synchronized throughout the life cycle into a product, service, or result that is intended to meet those requirements and provide business value.

Portfolio-Level Activities:
* Develop Portfolio Strategic Plan: Conveys the alignment of the portfolio components to the organizational strategy, future benefit, and stakeholder expectations. The portfolio strategic plan conveys the key strategic assumptions, constraints, dependencies, and priorities that influence the requirements.
* Define Portfolio Road-map: Provides insight to the strategic priority mapping of the portfolio and its components. The road-map is the initial basis upon which dependencies between initiatives and deliverables are established. The road-map should provide context for requirements efforts on the project.

Program-Level Activities:
* Define Business Case or Equivalent: Provides insight into alternative solution options, time to market, constraints, and philosophy behind the business need. It also contains a clear vision statement for the initiative, identifies an initial set of known stakeholders and their needs, and identifies any constraints or dependencies.
* Develop Program Plan: Assists the component projects with detailed planning. During program planning, external influences, organizational constraints, and business strategies influence the requirements outlined in the program plan.
* Develop Program Road-map: Provides high-level time-line, benefits, and strategy that the project is expected to accomplish. Major milestones from the component projects are typically included in the program road-map. Requirements are monitored to ensure they continue to address the needs of the program and/or portfolio.
* Create Benefits Register: Collects and lists the planned benefits for the program. It defines the appropriate performance measures for each of the benefits. The benefits register includes the person, group, or organization responsible for delivering each of the benefits.
* Engage Stakeholders: Maintains stakeholder involvement across the initiative. A stakeholder analysis is conducted to identify and understand the needs of the stakeholders. Stakeholder preferences, characteristics, and expectations influence requirements-planning decisions.
* Develop Benefits Realization Plan: Defines when a benefit is delivered by a program or project. This plan defines the benefits and how they are achieved. There are defined metrics and procedures to measure the benefits, to describe how the resulting capability is transitioned to an operational state, and to describe how the organization can sustain the benefits.

Project-Level Activities:
* Develop Business Case: Is normally developed before project initiation. The needs assessment and business case build the foundation for determining the project objectives.
* Document and Communicate Results: Aligns with the portfolio strategic plan and program plan, and thus should be communicated with the sponsor and other appropriate stakeholders.

4 Assessment Techniques:
* SWOT Analysis: SWOT analysis becomes more detailed at the project level and more strategic at the portfolio or program level, and may be used to understand the strengths and weaknesses and opportunities and threats of the organization.
* Decision Analysis: Decision analysis is a group of techniques that provides a basis for structured, analytical decision making. Decision trees (yes/no) and decision tables depicts a series of decisions and their outcomes.
* Gap Analysis: Gap analysis is a technique used to compare the current assessment of organizational capability against a future desired state.
* Benchmarking: Benchmarking provides insights into how other organizations are responding to the same challenges experienced by the performing organization. Benchmarking is used to compare organization actual and planned practices, such as processes and operations, to those of comparable organizations.

###### REQUIREMENT MANAGEMENT PLANNING

Requirement planning provides guidance and direction on how requirements will be developed and managed throughout the project. The plan is developed, reviewed, and updated to reflect the specific activities of the life cycle domains from elicitation, analysis, monitoring, and controlling through solution evaluation.

Requirement Management Planning - Success Factors
* Organization Commitment: The requirements process should be aligned with organizational goals and values, and a sponsor should be engaged.
* Recognizing the Value of Requirement Management Planning: Requirements management planning should be recognized as a valuable domain that provides a positive potential return on investment for organizational management, stakeholders, project managers, and team members.
* Stakeholder Engagement and Collaboration: Stakeholder analysis is often conducted during the planning domain so that the project team can understand the stakeholder impacts and influences on the requirements process as early as possible.
* Integration with Project Management Activities: Requirements development and management do not exist in isolation from other project management processes. A successful requirements plan requires integrated execution with the project management plan.

Requirement Management Planning - Activities
* Stakeholder Analysis and Engagement: Stakeholder analysis and engagement is critical to the success of requirements management plan. Further stakeholder identification is conducted during requirements planning activities to set expectations with the key stakeholders to ensure they understand the requirements activities that will be performed.
[1] Generate or Refine the Stakeholder Register: An initial stakeholder register may have been developed as a part of the needs assessment, or the work to produce the project management plan, stakeholder management plan, communications plan, or other plan documents. The register may include stakeholders such as those who will provide sponsorship for the projects, benefit from the project outcomes, be responsible for the project outcomes, define the product service or result, provide support, articulate the benefits, provide financial backing, use the solution, and implement the solution.   
[2] Group and Characterize Stakeholders: Once the stakeholder register is complete, an analysis of the characteristics of the identified stakeholders should be performed. Some commonly applied characteristics for consideration are attitude, complexity, culture, experience, level of influence, location, and availability. It is important to make sure that there are clear roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities. A commonly used approach to organizing these assignments, known as either RACI or ACRI, characterizes and groups stakeholders into one or more of 4 categories: Responsible (perform the work) - Accountable (approve the work) - Consulted (to be asked for opinions) - Informed (apprise progress).  
[3] Management Stakeholder Engagement: Through proactive communication and working directly with stakeholders to meet the project objectives, stakeholders are engaged and managed throughout the requirements life cycle process.  
* Requirements Management Planning Initiation: It is essential at the start of the requirements process to clearly understand the initial project scope statement and project objectives.
[1] Gather Project Information: Information can be leveraged to provide the context for the scope statement which may include (but not limited to): organizational strategic plans, feasibility studies, needs assessments, business cases, concept of operations documents, program management plan (when applicable), project charter, project management plan, project scope statement, contractual documents, and customer specifications.   
[2] Identify Organizational Standards and Guidance: Organizations establish operating procedures, standards, and pre-developed tools, templates, techniques, and process documents.  
* Develop the Requirements Management Plan: Requirements management plan is a component of the project management plan and describes how the requirement activities of the project will be planned and managed. The project life cycle strong influences how requirements are planned, developed, and managed.
[1] Core components of the Requirements Management Plan: This plan focuses on the scope of requirements activities to be conducted and deliverables to be produced. The core components of the requirements management plan can include (but not limited to): How requirements should be developed, tracked, managed, validated, and reported; what roles and responsibilities are for those participating in requirements activities; what the authorization and key decision-making process is; how requirements should be prioritized, approved, and maintained; how acceptance criteria are determined for the requirements and solutions; what product metrics are used and the rationale for using them; what the traceability structure is and the implementation to reflect which requirement attributes will be captured on the traceability matrix; and how requirements will be documented and communicated to stakeholders.  
* Launch the Requirements Management Plan: Once the requirements management plan is complete, it should be reviewed with key stakeholders to reduce the risk of stakeholders failing to support the work to be performed. There may be an organizational or project life cycle process that defines how approval should be attained.

###### REQUIREMENT ELICITATION

Elicitation is a discovery process used to bring forward or produce information relevant to the project or program by drawing out information from stakeholders and other sources. The process aims to identify the causes of the business problem or the reasons for addressing an opportunity, as well as the information to be used to derive a sufficient level of requirements to enable a solution to be developed and implemented.

Requirements Elicitation Success Factors
* Planning and Preparation: Within requirements elicitation, planning focuses on how to conduct elicitation sessions, which stakeholders to involve, and in which order. The size, complexity, and type of project should be considered, as the elicitation activities will vary based on these characteristics.
* Active Stakeholder Engagement: Stakeholders are a principal source of requirements, which places them at the center of many project and program issues related to unrealistic expectations, lack of user involvement, and ambiguous, unclear requirements.
* Defined Business/Organizational Need: A properly conducted needs assessment lays the foundation for achieving the goals and objectives of the business or organization. A comprehensive understanding of the business need, problem, or opportunity helps to determine that the right information is elicited and the appropriate stakeholders and elicitation techniques to obtain that information are selected.
* Domain Knowledge: The person responsible for elicitation should competent in the domain or have access to subject matter experts for support so as to ask the right questions during elicitation activities.

Requirements Elicitation Activities
* Plan for Elicitation: Before the actual elicitation, more detailed preparation is required such as drafting agendas, scheduling conferences for elicitation workshops, inviting stakeholders etc.
[1] Activities: Derive from Requirements Management Planning, but now that more is known about the problem/opportunity, the techniques should be revisited.  
[2] Requirements Sources: Determine the potential sources of information that are needed to develop requirements. These sources can be internal or external to the organization and include specific people, reference material, or other documentation relevant to the project or program scope. This information may exist in many forms, including user manuals, procedures, market research, or governmental regulations.  
[3] Resources: Identify project resources including stakeholders, equipment, and facilities.  
[4] Expected Deliverables: Derive from Requirements Management Planning, but to be revisited because more is now known about the problem/opportunity to be solved or addressed. More predictive life cycles typically require formal requirements specifications, whereas highly adaptive life cycles focus on more lightweight documentation, such as user stories.  
* Define Types of Requirements: These categories help define what information needs to be elicited and the source of that information.
[1] Business Requirements: Describe the high-level needs of the overall organization to address a problem or opportunity. These requirements provide the rationale for why a project or program is launched.  
[2] Stakeholder Requirements: Express the needs of a specific stakeholder or group of stakeholders, which may include customers, users, or suppliers. These requirements communicate the material interest or the stakeholders in the outcome of the product, service, or result.  
[3] Solution Requirements: Describe the features and functions that the product, service or results needs to exhibit to satisfy the business and stakeholder requirements. Solution requirements may include requirements related to technology and standard compliance. These are usually grouped into 2 categories: functional and nonfunctional requirements.  
[4] Transition Requirements: Describe the temporary capabilities that are essential to migrate from the current state to future state environment. Requirements that fall into this category include conversion of data from the current system and training needed to address skill gaps.  
[5] Project Requirements: Describe the actions, processes, and other conditions that the project needs to satisfy. These requirements focus on the execution of the work required to deliver the solution.  
[6] Quality Requirements: Describe the criteria needed to ensure completion of project deliverables and demonstrate compliance with identified standards and quality Metrics.  
[7] Program Requirements: Describe the specifications and outcomes for successful implementation and delivery of the program benefits.  
* Conduct Elicitation Activities: Elicitation is an exploratory activity that draws out implicit and hidden information. Input is received by consulting a broad range of stakeholders as well as reviewing existing systems, historical records and documentation.
* Document and Communicate Results: The outcome of elicitation activities should be recorded to properly examine and synthesize the relevant information during the analysis process. It is important to document the results, consolidate and communicate with stakeholders to ensure accuracy. These work products may or may not evolve into requirements. However they are necessary throughout the elicitation process to clarify the information received and identify other items that require additional research or explanation.

Requirement Elicitation Techniques
* Interviews: Methodical approach used to elicit information from stakeholders by asking relevant questions and documenting the responses.
* Facilitated Workshops: Focused and structured session to identify requirements, reconcile differences, and reach consensus among the participants.
* Focus Groups: Focus groups assemble participants such as subject matter experts, in a group setting to share their attitudes and expectations about a particular product, service, or result.
* Brainstorming: Group technique used to generate multiple ideas related to a particular subject.
* Questionnaires and Surveys: Techniques used to quickly solicit and obtain information from a large number of users.
* Document Analysis: A substantial amount of information can be uncovered by reviewing and analyzing existing documentation. Document analysis inspects a wide range of materials, such as a glossary of terms, strategic and business plans, process flows, problem/issue logs, regulations, policies, and procedures to discover and/or verify requirements.
* Interface Analysis: This technique is used to define requirements by examining system interactions between users, processes and other system components. It helps to establish relationships and boundaries by determining the input and output needs of each interfacing system.
* Prototypes: Method of obtaining early feedback on requirements by providing a working model of the expected product before actual development.
* Observation: Observation is also known as "job shadowing", provides a direct way of viewing people in their environment to see how they perform their jobs or tasks.

###### REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS

Analysis is the process used to examine, decompose, and synthesize information to further understand it and the features and capabilities of the solution. Analysis is performed to examine the information to lower levels of detail to develop a set of requirements.

Requirements Analysis Success Factors
* Skilled Resources: Having the correct talent is vital to conducting meaningful analysis.
* Communication: Throughout analysis, frequent and timely communication with the project team, stakeholders etc., is key to improve the quality of the requirements.
* Collaboration: The success of analysis greatly depends on establishing a collaborative working relationship between the stakeholders involved in the requirements effort and the person performing the analysis.

Requirements Analysis Activities
* Plan for Analysis: It is essential to establish a strategy for how analysis will be performed. This strategy includes determining what activities and techniques will be used to yield the greatest benefit based on what is known about the project or program. Evaluate what types of analyses will be performed and identify the appropriate analysis techniques and tools to employ. Visual models, for example, provide context to better understand and clearly convey information. It is important to identify existing models in the organization to leverage as a starting point for analysis.
* Conduct Analysis Activities: Requirements analysis is more than analyzing information to further understand it, complete it, and improve it. It involves structuring  requirements in different views to capture varying perspectives, evaluating requirements for certain attributes, and integrating the collective information into written documentation.  
[1] Identify, analyze, and document requirements attributes: Requirements attributes are specific characteristics or traits that capture key information about a requirement, such as the source, owner priority, complexity, rationale, and status. This information is used to aid in requirements traceability and monitoring throughout the project life cycle.
[2] Select the requirement models: A component of analysis is the development of graphical or text models, which are helpful in finding gaps in information and identifying extraneous information. As some models are better suited for certain environments, it is important to select requirements models based on specific characteristics, type of project, methodology, timing, purpose, and level of abstraction.
[3] Prioritize requirements: It is an important step to manage product scope and is used to rank requirements in the order of importance. It is used to assist key stakeholders in making trade-offs between requirements and to analyze the relative value of requirements against one another. Since it may not be feasible to implement all requirements within the project constraints, priority helps to focus the stakeholders on the most critical requirements based on the priority criteria. Common types of criteria include: Value, Risk Level, Complexity, Cost, and Regulatory Constraints. Some commonly used techniques include MOSCOW, voting, and time-boxing etc.
[4] Allocate and derive requirements: Requirements allocation is the process of assigning requirements to functions, solution components, and organizational entities. Requirements are subsequently allocated to specific releases or iterations. Allocation helps assure that the proposed solution will be delivered in a manner and order that maximize value to the business. How requirements are allocated can change the amount of value delivered by the solution. Deriving requirements is the process of analyzing requirements into more detail to extrapolate more granular discrete requirements and remove ambiguity. When requirements are broadly defined, they should be progressively elaborated to a greater level of detail or decomposed into multiple discrete requirements to aid in the implementation of higher-level requirements or to reduce ambiguity. This process results in derived requirements, which are important to confirm that the required functionality is present. It provides the basis for subsequent verification and validation.
[5] Verify requirements: Requirements should be scrutinized to confirm integrity and ensure that quality standards are being met. Requirements verification is the process of reviewing requirements to ensure the requirements are constructed properly and are error-free. A successful verification process requires that specific quality characteristics are known and adhered to. The following characteristics are present in all well-written, high-quality requirements:
Unambiguous: Single meaning and is interpreted the same way by intended audience.  
Consistent: Requirement does not contradict or duplicate other requirements.  
Correct: Accurately presents the functionality to be build as defined by stakeholders and other requirement sources.  
Complete: Requirement includes necessary information and valid conditions necessary to design, build, and test the solution.  
Measurable: Requirement can be proven or verified through analysis, test, inspection, or demonstration.  
Feasible: Requirement can be implemented within the known constraints and capabilities of the operating environment.  
Traceable: Requirement has a unique identifier and can be referenced throughout the life cycle and requirements hierarchy.  
Precise: Requirement states precisely what the solution to the business problem is.  
Testable: Requirement should be written in a way that allows it to be tested.  
[6] Validate requirements: Requirements are validated to ensure that the product, service, or result represents the needs of the business and relevant stakeholders. Validation is a process used to evaluate that all requirements accurately reflect the intent of the stakeholder, thereby ensuring requirements meet stakeholder expectations.  
* Document and Communicate Results: Analysis is conducted with the intent of documenting the results in an accessible and consistent manner to meet the needs of the intended audience and the project life cycle being used. The requirements documentation may be created in various forms and levels of formality, such as specifications, written text, models, etc. These different representations should be selected based on the type of project life cycle, organizational or industry practices, and stakeholder preferences.

Requirements Analysis Techniques
* Backlog Management and Priority: In adaptive life cycles, user stories populate a backlog and are used as a basis for prioritizing development. Since decisions regarding priorities are often complex, a structured approach may be necessary to simplify the process.  
[1] MOSCOW: "Must have" means the requirement is fundamental to the success of the solution. "Should have" defines the requirement as important, but project success does not rely on it. "Could have" means the requirement can be eliminated without impacting the project. "Wont have" means the requirement will not be delivered during the current release or iteration.  
[2] Voting: Voting is a participatory decision model that allows participants to distribute a predetermined number of votes to a list of requirements.  
[3] Time-boxing: This technique ranks requirements based on the capacity of work that can be accomplished within a specified period of time. It is most often used for projects with tight schedule constraints and allows for control of the project schedule at the lowest level.  
* Modeling: Models are used to determine what is important and valuable so that the right requirements are created.
[1] Scope Models: Scope models identify the boundaries of the project, program, product, or system under analysis. These models are used to express the features, functions, capabilities, and boundaries of the domain being analyzed. Techniques may include (1) Context Diagram, (2) Ecosystem Map, (3) Goal Model and Business Objectives Model, (4) Feature Model, and (5) Use Case Diagram.  
[2] Function Models: Function models in value management/value engineering are used to organize logic and dependency relationships between functions. Function models differ from process models in that they reveal what is required to be done rather than describe how the process is or will be delivered. Function models may include (1) Functional Decomposition Model - identifies basic and secondary functional relationships and requirements for the current or desired future scope, (2) Function/Feature Tree Model - identifies major functions/features and sub-function/feature relationships in a hierarchical arrangement.  
[3] Process Models: Process models describe users or stakeholders interaction with a particular process or solution. Some common process models used to analyze requirements include: (1) Process Flow, (2) Use Case, and (3) Use Story.  
[4] Rule Models: Rule models describe business policies, business rules, and decisions that are required to be adhered to by the solution. Techniques that fall in this category include (1) Business Rules Catalog - a repository of business rules and related attributes, which define the guidelines and standards that influence the behavior of a solution, (2) Decision Tree/Decision Table - a series of decisions and their associated outcomes. These models are used to represent complex business rules, including possible conditions and actions.  
[5] Data Models: Data models describe the specific information needs of a process or system and the transition of this information throughout its life cycle. Techniques within this category are (1) Entity Relationship Diagram - business model that shows the business data objects involved in a project and the relationships between those objects, (2) Data Flow Diagram - movement of data through a system and how the data is manipulated by processes, (3) Data Dictionary - description of the fields, attributes, and properties that define the data objects relevant to the system, (4) State Table/Diagram - life cycle of a data object by defining the possible conditions or stages that the object may undergo within a solution.  
[6] Interface Models: Interface models document the relationships and interactions among systems and/or users within a solution. The common interface models include: (1) Report Table - requirements needed to develop and display information for a single report, (2) System Interface Table - the communication flow and transfer of data between the source and target systems, (3) User Interface Flow - communication between a user and a system. It depicts how users manipulate a system to accomplish a task, (4) Wire-frame/Display-Action-Response - the manner in which a system displays data and how the system responds to actions initiated by a user, (5) N2 Diagram - a tabular model used to identify and represent the interfaces among elements of a system.  

###### REQUIREMENT CONTROLLING AND MONITORING

Requirement monitoring and controlling domain iteratively monitors the status of requirements and manages the requirements baseline over the project life cycle. The process and related activities involved in the development and management of requirements are distinct from the project management life cycle.

The requirements traceability matrix and associated attributes created during elicitation and analysis are applied in requirements monitoring to help control product and project scope. Traceability is updated as changes are approved. Approved requirements are base-lined and tracked, to include linkages among parent and child requirements. As new requirements are identified, they are assessed for impacts to the project and product and presented to stakeholders for approval.

Requirements instability is a leading cause of scope creep, and the requirements monitoring and controlling activities ensure that requested changes to requirements are processed through the Perform Integrated Change Control process.

Traceability provides the ability to track product requirements from their origin to the activities and deliverables that satisfy them. Traceability is "bidirectional" or "forward and backward". Not all projects require the same amount of traceability documentation, so the specific deliverables that are traceable for the project are determined during requirement management planning.

Requirements Monitoring and Controlling Success Factors: Key requirements should be identified and marked as such, and monitored continuously.

Requirements Monitoring and Controlling Activities: After creating the traceability matrix during elicitation and analysis, requirements monitoring and controlling key processes include approving baseline requirements, managing changes to requirements, monitoring requirements status, and communicating results. Once the requirements baseline is established, the person primarily responsible for the requirements ensures that they are managed and that changes to the requirements are addressed through the defined change management process.
* Prepare for Requirements Monitoring and Controlling: Requirements monitoring and controlling planning is completed during requirements management planning and considers interactions among the requirements elicitation, analysis, and evaluation domains.
[1] Set up systems for managing requirements and traceability: There is a range of tools available for creating traceability, from simple spreadsheets and tables to high-end systems that control the requirements and provide full traceability.  
[2] Managing requirements attributes: Requirements attributes define key information about the requirements. If using a traceability matrix, each attribute forms a column on the traceability matrix. Typical requirements attributes include at least a unique ID, source of the requirement, version, priority, and acceptance criteria. Some attribute changes may initiate the change control process, such as requirement becoming in-scope or a requirement moving from a low level of priority to a high priority.  
[3] Maintain traceability: The necessary level of traceability should be determined during planning and tailored to meet project needs.  
* Create Traceability Matrix: The process of creating the requirements traceability matrix is performed in parallel with the elicitation and analysis of requirements. When a requirement is written, the associated attributes and linkages should also be captured in the traceability matrix.   
* Approve and Baseline Requirements: Once the requirements and associated traceability attributes have been collected and documented, it is critical that they are approved. The requirements baseline is the boundary that contains the approved product requirements for the project, project phase, iteration, increment, release, or any other part of a project. Once the requirements have been base-lined, any suggested change to requirements initiates the change management process.
* Manage Requirements Change Requests: A change request process should be defined in the planning domain. In an adaptive life cycle, the defined change request process commonly adds new requirements to the backlog, and then adds planning sessions for follow-up iterations or sprints to review the entire backlog and use a priority process to determine the next set of features for the subsequent iteration or sprint. Individual phases of the configuration change management process are (1) Establish baseline, (2) Submit change request, (3) Verify change request, (4) Evaluate impacts, (5) Review decision and plan, (6) Implement change if approved and (7) Conclude change process.  
* Monitor Requirements Status: The current state of requirements should be monitored in the requirements monitoring and controlling domain.  
* Document and Communicate Results: Communicating the project and product requirements baseline and effort keeps project stakeholders apprised of the current state and maintains a good level of collaboration. The overall state of the requirements management work, key requirements metrics, and overall status of requirements fulfillment should be captured and communicated to stakeholders in accordance with the project communications management plan. Updates captured during the requirements monitoring and controlling domain are:  
[1] Update requirements baseline: All requirements updates should be captured and placed under configuration control as indicated in the requirements management plan.  
[2] Capture change requests: Change requests for all requirements should be captured and placed under configuration control as indicated in the requirements management plan. In additional to the change requests, the impact analysis and any other documents created during the change request process should be captured.

Requirements Monitoring and Controlling Techniques: Some of the techniques used to perform requirements monitoring and controlling are listed in this section. These techniques primarily assist with assessing and visualizing impacts to requirements changes.  
* Dependency Analysis: Requirements are often related to other requirements. Therefore sometimes a requirement cannot be satisfied in a solution without the other requirements being present. Dependency analysis is a technique that is used to discover dependent relationships. Once analyzed, the set of requirements are recorded in the traceability matrix by grouping dependent requirements together. Some requirements management tools illustrate the dependencies visually by creating traceability trees.  
* Impact Analysis: When a requirement change is proposed, it is necessary to complete an impact analysis to evaluate the proposed change in relation to how it will affect other requirements, product, project and the program. The impact analysis assesses a proposed change that includes the identification of the risks associated with the change, the work required to incorporate the change, and the schedule and cost implications. A key benefit of completing an impact analysis is that it allows for changes within the project to be considered in an integrated fashion, thereby reducing project and product risk, which often arises from changes being made without consideration to the effect on the program, project, and the end product.
* Traceability Matrix: Organizations often trace their requirements using a structure called a traceability matrix. A traceability matrix is a grid that links product requirements from their origin to the deliverables that satisfy them. The implementation of a requirements traceability matrix supports the goal that each requirements adds business value by linking it to the business and project objectives. It provides a means to track requirements throughout the project life cycle, helping to ensure that approved requirements are delivered at the end of the project. The matrix also provides a structure for managing changes, thereby helping to manage the product scope.  
* Change Control Boards: Change control board is a formally chartered group of stakeholders responsible for reviewing, evaluating, approving, delaying, or rejecting changes to the project in addition to recording and communicating such decisions. Not all projects require the use of a change control board. A project in a heavily regulated industry or one with numerous components, interfaces, risks, and stakeholders may require the use of a formal change control board more than a project without those characteristics. The change may impact thresholds which usually are defined by impact on cost, schedule, or deliverables and should be defined in the requirements management plan.

###### SOLUTION EVALUATION

Solution Evaluation is the domain of business analysis concerned with activities performed to validate a solution that is about to be or that has already been implemented. Evaluation determines how well a solution meets the business needs expressed by stakeholders, including delivering value to customer. Evaluation of an implemented solution can also identify new or changed requirements that may lead to solution refinement or new solutions.

Testing, analysis and other means of demonstrating that the agreed-upon requirements have been met (verification activities) work alongside activities that demonstrate the suitability of the solution for its intended purpose (validation activities).

Solution Evaluation Success Factors
* Approach Evaluation as a Process: Evaluation is most successful when treated as a process rather than a discrete event. Acceptance criteria, when established early, can serve as a foundation for evaluating candidate solutions, are useful in the development of verification strategies, and can identify which areas of a solution will need the most testing.

Solution Evaluation Activities
* Plan for Evaluation: Planning for evaluation should begin in requirements management planning early in the project and should consider the interactions with other project management related activities. Evaluation activities should be reflected in the overall project baseline.  
* Validation During Solution Evaluation: The validation process ensures the solution is working as intended and meets the stakeholder and business needs on which its documented requirements are based. Some approaches to validation attempt to draw a distinction between validation of the requirements set and validation of the solution or component of the solution.
* Document and Communicate Results: There are many available methods to document and communicate the evaluation results. The approach should be selected early in a project and documented in the requirements management plan. The documentation approach may depend on factors such as the size and complexity of the project, the nature of the solution, contractual or regulatory constraints, stakeholder preferences, or the predictive or adaptive nature of the project life cycle.

Solution Evaluation Techniques
* Solicit Inputs: One general approach to evaluating a solution is to solicit input from stakeholders, end users, or people with specific related expertise to validate that the product, service, or result is performing as intended. A variety of formal and informal techniques exists, including reviews, focus groups, surveys, brainstorming, checklists, multi-voting, or the Delphi technique. Usage context documentation generated during the requirements elicitation and/or analysis domains may also be useful tools to support the collection of subjective inputs. (1) Testing - either exploratory or user acceptance testing, (2) Demonstration - examines the solution, generally by operating it, to prove or show that it meets its intended functions.

###### PROJECT OR PHASE CLOSURE

The outcomes of solution evaluation activities lead to a go/no-go decision, and if a go decision is reached, sign-off of the solution is obtained.

Evaluating the long-term performance of the solution is part of assessing the business benefits realized by implementing the solution.

Project or phase closure is the process of finalizing all activities across all of the Project Management Process Groups to formally complete the project or phase. Closure may include (1) documenting lessons learned and providing knowledge transfer, (2) supporting transition to operations and (3) enabling the organization to sustain long-term performance benefits over time.

Activities necessary for administrative closure of the program, project or iteration, including:
* Activities necessary to satisfy completion or exit criteria for the program, project, or iteration, including the evaluation of the acceptance criteria performed during the solution evaluation domain.
* Activities necessary to transfer the product, service, or result to the next program, project, or iteration or to production and/or operations.
* Activities necessary to collect project or iteration records, audit project success or failure, gather lessons learned, and archive related information for future use by the organization.

Project or Phase Closure Success Factors
* Documented Transition Plan: The transition plan provides the transition team with project files, closure documents, and historical information for the project as a part of the transition for project or phase closure.
* Final Customer Acceptance: Customer acceptance, internal or external, allows the project to transition into closure activities and allows the organization to transition to long-term performance benefits realization monitoring.
* Defined Metrics to Measure Benefits Realization: Metrics measuring the benefits realized by the product, service, or result provide valuable feedback to the stakeholders.

Project or Phase Closure Activities
* Document: Most organizations find it important to document whether they are satisfied with the product, service, or result at the end of a program, project, or iteration. The documentation may be updated once long-term performance benefits have been realized.
* Reuse: Reuse involves leveraging existing knowledge across projects and programs with similar needs. Requirements reuse should be planned for during business analysis planning and performed throughout the various phases of the project. When reuse is planned and executed effectively during the project or program, it takes advantage of work done previously, which may result in improved productivity, lower costs, increased service delivery, and reduced rework.
* Lessons Learned and Providing for Knowledge Transfer: Collecting and documenting lessons learned is a critical means of transferring knowledge to other programs, projects, or iterations. Organizations that are good at knowledge transfer conduct the following steps of the knowledge transfer life cycle: (1) Identifying - determining what knowledge needs to be transferred, (2) Capturing - accumulating the essential knowledge that needs to be transferred, (3) Sharing - establishing methods for transferring the knowledge, (4) Applying - using the knowledge that is transferred, (5) Assessing - evaluating the benefits of the knowledge that is transferred.
* Support Transition to Operations: Programs, projects, or iterations deliver benefits by enhancing current capabilities or developing new capabilities that support the sponsoring organizations' strategic goals and objectives. Benefits may be realized incrementally upon completion of a project or iteration or may be realized over the longer term. Transition to operations may be a formal activity between functions within a single organization or may involve an agreement with an entity outside the organization. The receiving entity should have a clear understanding of the capabilities or results to be transitioned and what is required for the entity to successfully sustain or attain benefits.

Project or Phase Closure Techniques
* Expert Judgment: Expert judgment is applied when performing administrative closure activities. These experts ensure the closure of the program, project, or iteration is performed to the appropriate standards. Expertise is available from many sources, including but not limited to (1) business analysis and requirements professionals, (2) project management office, and (3) professional and technical associations.
* Analytical Techniques: Many of the analytical techniques previously described may also be used to determine the limitations of the implemented solutions. Other analytical techniques used in project or phase closure may include: Benchmarking, Gap analysis, Regression analysis, and Trend analysis.
* Meetings: Meetings are used to discuss and address topics related to project or phase closure activities. These meetings are used to understand the successes and challenges of an initiative, as well as to identify areas of improvement.
